# Week 1: extra instructions

Here is a bunch of the stuff that we brought up during the tutorial session. A bunch of these might answer some of the common questions that you might have.

## Common setup problems

* **Windows**: If you are on Windows, a pretty common problem that you might run into is not having your python properly setup. Before anything, make sure you have python3 installed, and make sure your PATH is set up properly so that when you install packages they are both accessable from your command shell, and python shell. This means that you can run `python` in your command prompt and also when you install a package using `pip` that externally callable commands, you are able to execute them from your shell. Django itself is a good example of a 3rd party package with externally callable commands (e.g. `django-admin`). Check everything by running `django-admin --version`. If it doesn't work, you might have to do some googling to figure out how to set up your PATH properly, before proceeding with the rest of your projects.
* **PyCharm**: If you are using PyCharm, keep in mind that PyCharm introduces a new python virtual envioronment for each of your projects by default. Therefore, you have to install all of your packages in each of your projects, even if you have already installed them in another project. To work with your project's virtualenv interpreter, either use PyCharm's GUI tools (check [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/creating-django-project.html) for Django specific PyCharm GUI wizards), or just tap into your project's virtualenv by opening up a new PyCharm's terminal.PyCharm automatically activates the virtual environment for the project that you are currently working on. 
* **Visiting your website**: When viewing HTML files (django-template files included), some IDEs show a pop op suggestion to view it in the browser; however, this is not the same as visiting your website, and you'll just see the interpretation of your browser of your template files. If you wish to visit your website, you have to run your django server and visit the address that your server is listening on, (by default, it is `http://localhost:8000/`).
  
## Train of thought for creating the project
It's good to have a train of thought when creating a django (or any other) project. Here is how I went about creating this project:
1. Decided on the features that I wished to implement for my twitter clone. In this case, I wanted to implement a simple twitter clone with the following features:
    * Users can create an account, login, and logout, and recover their password.
    * Users have to be logged in to use the website.
    * Users can view and create tweets.
    * In the simplest version, the home page will show all tweets (no need to implement following).

2. Focusing on User accounts for this week, I started by creating a django project (`django-admin startproject dwitter`), and then created a django app (`python manage.py startapp accounts`, although in this case I packed my apps into a directory called `apps`, and manually changed my app.name in `accounts/app.py` to `dwitter.apps.accounts`). Added the app (`dwitter.apps.accounts`) to my `INSTALLED_APPS` in `settings.py`.
3. We want to handle user accounts, meaning we need to make an abstraction of a user and its features in our Database of choice. We know that we can do this by creating our own model, but because user abstraction is common among basically all websites, why not use other peoples codes for it? A simple googling of "django user model" will lead you to django's built-in implementation of such an abstraction ([Django's Official Documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/ref/contrib/auth/), [Geeks4Geeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-use-user-model-in-django/)). Ok, this looks decent, now that we have a data abstraction, what is our website supposed to do? Meaning what is the logic that we seek to implement? Login, logout, Password recovery, A.K.A. an authentication system! Again, googling "Django authentication system" will lead you to [Using the Django authentication system's official docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/topics/auth/default/). Scrolling through this page, you will see that Django has already implemented all the logic that we want to implement. Ok how should we connect this to our naked dwitter project? 
4. A website's logic over its data is reachable from its user-interface, in most cases its front-end, and in technical terms, its exposed APIs which django calls views. So, we need to create django views (class-based/function based/ etc.) for our authentication system? Looking up "Authentication Views" in [Using the Django authentication system's official docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/topics/auth/default/), we see that Django has already implemented all the views that we need ([here](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/topics/auth/default/#module-django.contrib.auth.views)). Ok, so we just need to connect our views to our urls. The rest is covered in the tutorial (adding the urls to our project, coding up the templates).
If you do a little bit more of googling you'll come across this very neat tutorial that covers the exact same thing: [Django Authentication System Tutorial](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Authentication). I highly recommend you to go through this tutorial, as it covers a lot of the stuff that we covered in the tutorial, but in a more detailed manner. It also covers a lot of the stuff that we didn't cover in the tutorial, such as how to use django's built-in admin panel to manage your users.
5. Now that we have login,logout, and password recovery, we have to implement the signup page. (see the comments in `accounts/views.py` and `accounts/forms.py` for more details). After implementing the signup view, we'll add it to our urls, and then we'll add a link to it in our login page (in `accounts/templates/registration/login.html`).
6. To finish things off, we'll just create a view for our home page (in `dwitter/tweets/views.py`), and add it to our urls (in `dwitter/urls.py`). 

